We had surplus military buildings used for classrooms.
And where were they located?
Well, the biggest concentration was right about where the TV station is now.
South of?
There was a, I guess it's that same bridge.
It's still across that little creek there.
And there were a bunch of them there.
In fact, I saw a picture in here.
Yeah, right there.
Shorter types of buildings we had.
Was that called Hollywood or is that a different era?
Somewhere I came across that.
I think Hollywood was after World War I. Okay.
All right.
I don't know.
I believe that's... I stumbled on that term somewhere and I've not been able to identify.
I've heard it, but I believe that's an older period.
All right.
As you're going that second semester and then your second year and so forth, did you ever think about changing your major?
I did change my major.
From?
From animal husbandry to agricultural administration.
Why?
What were the factors that led you to?
Oh, I thought I needed a broader base, more business economics than in the animal husbandry area.
Did anybody give you any counsel, advice?
No.
How difficult was it to change?
It wasn't.
Didn't lose any credits.
Were there any courses that you heard about early in your years here that were supposed to be the tough, tough courses?
I don't remember any in agriculture.
I know that some of the engineering courses and particularly the math courses were supposed to be particularly bad, but I don't really remember anything that I came in contact with.
Was there any kind of nickname that you ag majors acquired?
I've never heard of one.
Not that I remember.
And so you changed your major to Ag Administration when?
My junior year.
Oh.
Before my junior year.
Okay.
All right.
So between my sophomore and junior year.
Were there any, as far as you were aware, first year or two, were there any easy courses that were, everybody made an easy grade?
Yeah, but I'm trying to think.
I don't recall.
We didn't have things like recreation and parks and some of those that
I have a reputation today.
Now, when I got here, Dr. Dan Russell's.
Okay.
Dan Russell's course in sociology was considered that.
And I don't think it was deserved, but I think Bob Skrbonik's course in population was kind of considered in that category.
But as I say, I thought it was a good course.
Were there supposedly any special courses for athletes?
I wasn't aware of it.
I've never heard of any.
There may well have been, but I don't.
I just wasn't that tuned to it.
And were there some courses that somebody told you, oh, no matter what, you want to be sure and take a course from this person or this person?
Somebody that was a... Well, I think...
Ralph Steen had that reputation.
And to a lesser extent, Dr. Mayo.
I mean, I think some of those people are English.
You know, you haven't asked me when I thought you'd ask.
What's that?
That was the March on the President's Home.
Oh, oh, yes.
Describe all of that.
Yes, I forgot that.
Oh, yes.
Because that's your first- My freshman year.
Yes.
Oh, describe that.
Well, we come back from Christmas and, of course,
Everything had really been boiling that fall semester.
And what was the issue?
Gibb Gilchrist, the hazing, the paddling, the use of the board.
And it was supposed to have stopped?
Yes.
And the legislature was getting involved.
Gib Gilchrist had taken over and had ordered that be stopped and was cracking down.
And so the upperclassmen, the seniors, decided to march on his home one night.
And they turned in their sabers and commissions
And I was in the front rank right in front of his house.
Scared to death.
Didn't know what was going to happen.
And he came out on the porch?
He came out on the porch.
And accepted there?
Yes, yes.
And it was, those were traumatic times.
What was his, didn't he make a brief statement?
Yes, but I don't recall anything about the statement.
I just remember how scared I was.
Because he didn't back down.
Oh, no.
No, he didn't back down.
No.
No, he didn't back down at all.
Let me look back now.
How did, how well did President Gilchrist handle that crisis?
Oh, I think he handled it appropriately.
I mean, it was, there was open rebellion.
He didn't give in and, you know, he shouldn't have given in.
If you read any of the newspaper accounts at that time, the legislature was all over them about the hazing problem.
And did it stop?
No.
Well, did it?
It went farther underground.
Oh, did it?
Oh, okay.
Okay.
And what do you mean by farther underground?
Well, I mean they just hid it more.
Oh, okay.
It just wasn't as visible.
Why was there more hazing that way?
fall than there had been other years.
Was it because the war was over?
No, I think as I've looked back on it and tried to reflect on that, that we had officers in the Corps who were two or three years younger than they normally would have been.
because classes had been accelerated during the war as a result of the war.
And so we had 18 to 19-year-olds in command positions
Whereas normally they'd been 21 or 22-year-old people.
So they had not matured.
They didn't have the maturity to do it.
Then the next year, was there anything like that kind of problem?
No, that was the last that we had.
Describe President Gilchrist from your viewpoint.
First of all, what did he look like physically?
And then describe his nature.
He was a rather tall, balding man.
By tall, I'd say probably six feet, balding or bald, wore glasses.
I knew him at church also, and not in a personal way, but he knew my name.
He knew what I was, and he'd speak to me.
I think he probably did a good job for the university at that time in that position.
All right.
Then you finished your sophomore year.
What did you do that summer?
I mean, you finished your freshman year.
Went to Europe.
How so?
How, why, where?
Went on a study tour sponsored by Columbia University.
How'd you land that?
It was advertised in the New York Times.
Where'd you go?
Went to England, to France, Switzerland.
England, France, Switzerland.
That was pretty good for a young man from Orange Grove, Texas.
Yeah, it was a real interesting experience.
And you were gone how long?
Three weeks.
And then how?
Well, the trip was three weeks.
We went over by ship and converted
troop ships, of course that's soon after the war.
You know, excuse me, that was the end of my sophomore year I went here, 48.
All right.
In 47 I just went back home.
And did what?
Just worked on the ranch.
All right, and then when you come back as a sophomore, why was life better, different?
We're the only class in history that was low man on the totem pole two years in a row because they put all the freshmen out at the annex.
So we were the low men on the totem pole a second year.
About the only difference was we didn't have to wear fish stripes and we didn't have to do mate service.
When did you all learn that that arrangement was going to come about?
I don't remember.
I just don't remember.
And the dorms were full.
Were classes full also?
Oh, yes.
Yes.
In fact, we had temporary buildings for classrooms.
And I presume lots of new faculty?
And we had night classes, too.
Really?
Yes, sir.
No, space was in short supply.
And the community around the campus physically, where was it?
Where did it extend to?
The places where there were residences, where people lived?
Well, not very far away from the campus.
Do you know where the Bryson House is in College Station?
That was about the end of that.
You had North Oakwood up here in Bryan that had been opened up before the war, and had a little bit out the East Gate, probably out Walton Drive, and then at the North Gate there was a lot of vacant space.
What businesses were there near the campus?
Well, as I say, hardware stores, variety stores, excuse me, Hanberger joints.
We used to have the theater down there at the end.
Campus theater was already there.
Excuse me, it was built while I was in school, probably built through freshman year.
And we had movies on campus.
We had Guyon Hall and the old assembly hall.
When you and your buddies went to Guyon Hall, what was the behavior pattern?
What did Aggies do during the movie in Guyon Hall?
I don't remember any problem.
Didn't people whoop?
Oh yeah, that's just normal A&M.
I mean, no.
And sometimes boo and sometimes hiss, is that right?
Yeah, I just took that as natural, being on campus.
And was there, were there many people in Guyon Hall movies except students?
Some of them.
Some of the faculty and people in the area would be there, but predominantly students.
How did you students relate to the faculty and staff that lived on the campus?
Did you all intrude on, did the typical students intrude on their area very much?
I don't remember a problem.
I just remember going through there on the way to and from class and to the railroad station and.
It was okay to walk through.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
But it was not okay to make noise over there and I've never heard of it.
I don't remember a problem.
I've never heard of it.
I don't recall any kind of problem.
Of course, by that time, there weren't many people living on campus.
Is that right?
They probably weren't over.
10 or 12 houses left.
Oh, oh, so it was down?
It's basically where the MSC is today.
And then old lot 60, weren't there a few there?
Where the coldest building is now, weren't there a few?
Yeah, but on Throckmorton Street, there were still two or three.
I remember Dr. R.D.
Lewis lived on the corner, Throckmorton and Joe Rout, I guess it is.
There were three or four along there, but I bet they weren't.
I'm going to say a dozen houses left, but probably not over 20.
At Guyton Hall, do you remember during your student days any celebrity visitors to the campus?
Oh, yeah.
We had Victor Barga and Red Skelton.
We had an active entertainment program.
Did you all go to those?
Oh, yes.
Yes.
In fact, I became town hall manager.
Oh, really?
Describe, describe.
Describe that.
Well, I worked for Spike White and made $100 a month out of it.
Big money for that era.
But we had, oh yeah, we had a good program, balanced program.
Not the popular stuff that you have today, but.
More of the classical type concerts and so forth.
Those were all held in Gunn Hall.
And they came by train or bus?
Oh, yes.
By train or bus.
Yeah, both.
Yeah, Burl Ives.
We had, we had good, good entertainment.
What about political or business celebrities during your student days?
You remember any presidents, senators?
No, I don't remember any, anything that we went out of the way for.
Were you aware that the MSC was being planned?
Yes, but it didn't, well, they had removed the houses to make way for it, but I don't believe any construction had started before I graduated.
Did you, was Wayne Stark appointed or do you?
Wayne Stark was already there.
And did you meet him by chance during?
I had met him, but just casually I hadn't.
really had any contact with him.
What about the campus medical facilities?
Describe the Quack Shack.
Where was it and who was it?
We didn't call it the Quack Shack in those days.
Oh, you didn't?
That's a newer term.
Surely you all had a nickname for it.
Trying to think.
Dr. Marsh was the doctor.
Oh, our classmate of mine was here a while back.
We were talking about Dr. Marsh and said one of his claims to fame was the number of appendectomies he did.
and apparently he got $100 extra for every appendectomy he did.
But the head nurse was Mom Claghorn, and she was well known and was a motherly type.
You could go over there and get sympathy from her.
So that part was good, but she didn't want to go over there unless she had to.
Describe the student body in general, their values, their diversity, their geographic background, economically rich, poor, and so forth.
Where were Aggies from then?
Of course most were from Texas, but one of the interesting things to me was the number of Mexican Americans we had.
Please discuss them.
A&M has always had a good number of Mexican Americans from Laredo and the Valley.
I don't remember many from El Paso.
How were they treated?
South Texas.
As far as I could tell, just one of the boys.
Predominantly from Texas.
Rural or urban?
Both.
Probably a pretty good cross-section of the population of Texas at that time, east, west, north, south.
I think I was surprised at the number of people from the Panhandle in that part of the state, but we had
They've been all over, remember?
Beaumont, Valley.
In terms of?
San Antonio was always a big, baggy town.
In terms of their religious backgrounds.
Again, I think it pretty much reflected the population of the state.
It was interesting, the Catholics had just that small little chapel.
at that time.
So we must not have had as many Catholics, relatively, or else they've grown.
There were some Jewish youngsters?
A few Jews.
In fact, I received an award for interfaith.
programs, Hillel Foundation Award given by Mrs. Tobbenhaus, who was the widow of a professor of
Plant physiology, I want to say.
Hillel Foundation already existed.
Where did they meet?
In the Y. Okay.
Did anybody have a nickname because of their, two or three of the folks I've interviewed have said they were nicknamed Jew Boy, but they quickly said it was not a put down, it was simply an identifier.
I don't remember.
I don't remember any kind of anti-Semitism.
Well, they didn't think it was.
At all.
And were some of the Hispanics, did they have nicknames, which today would be politically incorrect?
No.
As I say, I was always amazed that they were accepted without any
Not any problem.
Were there many international students?
No, and the ones that there were were
graduate students, so we didn't come in contact with them.
We had a few American expatriates, or sons of American expatriates, Venezuela and Peru, I remember, but we had some out of Mexico.
We did have some, in fact, and I had a fellow in my outfit from Guatemala, so we had a few, but
How was he treated?
Like everybody else.
What was the key?
What was the secret?
I don't know.
Once you were an Aggie, you were an Aggie.
That's the only explanation I could give.
I think that's the key.
All were treated the same?
But I never saw any kind of what I'd call discrimination.
Well, there might have been some joking, but there wasn't anything that was considered fancy.
Did most students have nicknames then?
Was that comparatively common?
I don't remember that as much as it apparently was earlier.
Okay.
And I don't remember the profs' nicknames the way some people do.
You're inferring you don't remember the nickname that you had?
No.
Let's see, what kind of vehicles did, how many cars were there probably?
Well, it wasn't like Dick Conley and General Simpson when they said there were, I think, 17 cars in 1937.
There were a lot of cars here.
Freshman couldn't have cars, but the cars had started coming by that time.
A cousin of mine bought a 1946 Chevrolet with everything on it, $1,200 to put things in perspective, put my fees that I gave you all in perspective.
Where did, where did students park their cars then?
Well, there seemed to be enough just on the streets.
Because those parking lots?
There weren't very many parking lots.
None were paved that I recall.
Was there a religious emphasis week then?
Yes.
Describe it.
Well, we would bring in a nationally known figure who would speak in Guyon Hall every day and then would go around and visit the different churches.
And as I recall, each church would bring it, would bring in a minister.
And so.
And classes were dismissed at 10 o'clock?
I mean, the 10 to 11 hour was?
I don't remember the hour, but it was in the morning and classes were dismissed, yeah.
Did the average student go to?
Well, guy in the hall he couldn't have.
But as I recall, guy in the hall was pretty full.
What did y'all think of as an undergrad, of Ronald Simms this week?
Did people make fun of it?
No, no.
It was accepted as, at least to my knowledge it wasn't.
Of course I was on the inside of a lot of it, so.
And when did you?
Might not have known.
Now you began to get involved in the Methodist youth activities even as a freshman?
Yes, and the Y also.
And the Y, okay.
And the Y was the Pager campus organization that sponsored the religious emphasis week.
Now the campus personalities of that era, President Gilchrist, who were the other key campus leaders?
Gilchrist, for a student, was very aloof.
We didn't see much of him or have much contact with him.
Who were the other key?
Well, H.L.
Heaton was the registrar, of course, and everybody knew who he was.
The deans, respective deans, were well known, who were probably better known relatively than today, who were shepherds in agriculture.
Brooks, liberal arts, or arts and sciences at that time.
Engineering?
Barlow, and I'm trying to think one before.
It was Mary Eccles' father.
Not Butler.
Bolton.
Dean of Engineering, and then Barlow took his place.
Who was coming?
Veterinary Medicine was, hmm.
That's a blank right now.
Who was to come about?
Malai.
who went in Korea and a number of our classmates were over there that were done during Korea.
Well, Malloy and then Boatner.
Hayden L. Boatner.
In, were there any during, and you graduated in four years, were there any events during those four years
where you remember where you were when you heard the news that, you know, a Pearl Harbor or a D-Day or an atomic bomb like, I can't think of any.
Well.
You're two years ahead of me and I'm trying to.
I'm trying to think when the Texas City explosion was.
Oh, yes, yes.
That's the spring of 47.
That was a major event.
But on campus, I don't.
But also, you know, the Korean War starts in the summer of 50, and you wouldn't have been on campus at that time.
Well, and I don't remember anything leading up to the Korean War.
I remember it as a big surprise.
Yeah, same here.
I agree with you.
I don't recall anything.
You know, Harry Truman was,
in this part of the world, not liked.
And we had a speaker from the New York Times here in the town, in the, what do you call it?
It was a speaking, and we brought in speakers.
Great issues.
And I want to say it's Harrison Salisbury, but that may not be right.
But I remember he spoke, and he made a statement that history will be kind to Harry Truman.
And I thought at the time, you know, how can that be?
Because we didn't care for Harry Truman.
But he was born out, certainly.
All right, now, when do you go to summer camp for the first time?
in my junior year, between junior and senior year.
Forty-six, forty-eight?
It's forty-eight.
Summer of forty-eight.
Forty-eight, okay.
Excuse me, excuse me.
Summer of forty-nine.
Where'd you go?
Brooksville, San Antonio.
And what was that like for an Aggie?
It was pretty routine.
We were thrown in with these kids from other ROTC programs and
We really thought we were superior.
Do you think you really were?
I think so.
That you were better prepared?
Well, we'd come through the, the Corps leadership and they were taking it, you see, just a few hours a week.
And it was completely different.
And were most of these from, most of the others there were from the Southwest?
I think went up to Illinois in that area.
I'm not sure, I don't think it was nationwide, but I think maybe well represented in the center part.
Then the next summer, you graduate in the spring of 50.
June 1, 50.
So that the Korean War starts after you.
Richard and I go to Europe that summer.
Richard?
My brother.
Oh, to do what?
Just tourism.
Just to tour Europe.
Oh, hell yeah.
And so the Korean War happens while we're up.